I am Vinnie toor Rich folks your good
intentions have been stolen but don't
worry I'm here to help you get them back
you may be soft and succulent at the
beginning of this process but hanging
there before long you will be lean and
mean guaranteed folks we've had this
show this guy on the show once before uh
back uh at the end of
2015 uh we've actually played this show
as part of the best of whenever uh I'm
out of town and we need a best of show
this show has come up uh but I thought
it was high time we get this doctor back
on one more time I'm talking about uh
Thomas sa freed uh just to give you an
idea because a lot of times people say
doctor and then you get them on here and
they're a chiropractor or something
which you know I'm not saying anything
bad about chiropractice but this guy is
the real deal um he was saved uh his PhD
in genetics and biochemistry from the
University of Illinois Urbana in 197 76
so he's been around for a minute uh he
did his undergraduate work at the
University of New England where he
received the distinguished alumni
Achievement Award uh he holds a master
master's degree in genetics from
Illinois University so this guy is no
slouch um and Thomas let let me just
wrong Thomas great to have you here yeah
thanks vny it's nice to be
here
um I could go on and on with your bio
you know but I think people get the idea
of who you are and and uh what you've
done and your name probably comes out of
my
mouth twice a week for the past seven or
eight years whatever it's been and you
would ask why why why would you think
about me why would my name come out of
your mouth well Dr sa freed I do these
consults and um people and usually the
consults
morbidly obese people or people trying
to get fit to run a marathon or whatever
it could be you know you call me and you
do a you know coaching
consult but at least twice a week if not
more uh I get the cancer
call you know yeah hey Vinnie you beat
cancer and these are desperate people
desperate that you know they just found
out they've just been diagnosed with or
they've been told there's nothing else
we can do for you you know M Pala of
care yeah it's it runs the Gambit I have
to tell you I'm in tears most of the
time I'm choking back tears on my end of
the line because they're talking to an
idiot that grew up on a bayou as their
last ditch and effort you know it's it
it really hurts me that this is where
they are
right and um my belief you know I I went
through chemotherapy when I had my
leukemia and um I believe that that
chemo saved my life because here I am
but they told me with the type of
leukemia I had that they the remission
meant that there was still leukemia
cells Milling around in my bone marrow
and within five years it would somehow
grow back but they could keep knocking
it back with
chemicals well as fate would have it I
went on a very low carb diet I've been
living in dietary ketosis now since
2007 and I blew right past said fiveyear
Mark Dr sa freed as a matter of fact I
made it right through the 10year mark
and if you do the math we're in 2024
minus 7 I've gone what 17 18 years of no
chemo now they might call me and say
look we look at your blood work this
year and you need a you need a touch up
on the chemo who knows but I've gone all
this
time and there's not one doctor that
could give me an explanation as to why
my cancer is not grown back so let's
start there and work backwards from
there if you don't mind yeah well um
thanks you know I I don't know why your
cancer hasn't grown back obviously
you're uh what we call you're in
longterm long-term remission I guess you
could say it may never grow back I mean
it's not clear um which is which is good
for you I mean let's be honest uh not
all folks are so fortunate let's be
honest about that as well but um you
know it's hard I can't you know make
predictions about that I mean I think we
have we have quite a few uh so-called
millions of cancer survivors in this
country and around the world who have in
fact survived uh these standards of care
as we call them but um you know and some
people do really really well and other
people survive but they don't do so well
it's generally not healthy for the body
to take in any kind of
a of a substance that has any level of
toxicity to it um I always find the
human body is quite resist resilient I
mean we are really capable of of doing
things to our bodies and have us still
walking around um especially diet
lifestyle issues I mean we got an
obesity epidemic and we've got all kinds
of problems diabetes and everything and
yet these folks are still alive uh and
there are people alive who have taken uh
radiation chemo and things like this but
you know and some people's bodies are
just absolutely resilient but you a lot
of folks put themselves at risk for
Downstream effects something may be to
totally different than the cancer they
might have had um another you know you
have bone density issues you have
Neuropsychiatric problems you got all
kinds of hormonal imbalances you can
have all kinds of other other issues as
collateral or secondary comorbidities as
the result of beating up on cancer so
the answer to your question question is
you're fortunate uh and uh and um listen
that's that's what we can say and you
may live you know if you uh live to be
95 years old die from a heart attack
then you know you you were cured from
cancer yeah so but we don't know that
until until many many more
years well let's let's hope that in my
case at least that it is many many more
years I'm only 61 I'm hoping to go a bit
longer oh yeah um how did you you you've
you've I I've I've read your stuff in
the past you've called um you know
cancer um you know uh a mitochondrial
metabolic disease rather than a genetic
disease what do what do you mean by that
well um there's a theory of disease okay
there's theories of
disease um if you look at Lewis
pastur uh he claimed that disease was
caused by invisible
microbes uh the com contrary explanation
was bad air it was like Galen said no
disease comes scal and an ancient
physician from the from the Greek and
Roman times said that all all diseases
came from Bad Air uh where uh Lewis
pastur did experiments and said no um
there is a disease coming from in these
invisible microbes viruses and bacteria
and these kinds of things they didn't
know too much about viruses but he
certainly could understand that
microorganisms uh were responsible for
the disease so then we have the germ
theory of disease as opposed to the bad
air theory of disease the current
situation right now in the cancer field
is that cancer is a genetic disease if
you go to the National Cancer Institute
website the NCI website it says cancer
is a genetic disease caused by somatic
mutations mutations that occur in cells
of our tissues and organs leading to
disregulated cell growth uh so the
definition of cancer is disregulated
cell growth or cell growth out of
control that's the definition of cancer
the theory that says what causes cells
to grow out of control is the somatic
mutation theory that mutations in the
DNA that control uh regul the regulation
of the cell cycle uh uh are the are
responsible for this disregulated cell
growth um the uh alternative Theory
which is the one uh we support and the
one that OT warberg originally defined
was that cancer uh arises as a an effect
of the damage to our energy producing
organel in the cell the the organel that
makes energy from oxygen and uh we and
others have shown that when that organel
becomes chronically corrupted uh it
leads to these reactive oxygen species
r that are carcinogenic and mutogenic
they damage DNA they damage proteins
they damage lipids so the mutations in
the nucleus are not the cause of cancer
but an effect of the damage to
respiration so this is two contro two
totally different explanations for the
same phenomenon in one Theory the
somatic mutation Theory which is
supported by all major medical school
TOS in the National Cancer Institute is
that the disregulated growth cancer is
caused by mutations in the DNA of the
nucleus of the cell the mitochondrial
metabolic Theory says no that's not true
the mutations are secondary Downstream
effects of um of the uh disrup
disruption oxidative
phosphorilation so um so this is the
alternative two views of the origin of
cancer let me push this thing down a
little bit further um so we have two
alternative views for the same
phenomenon and in my view if it's a
mitocondrial metabolic disease that
means people can take charge and and and
uh essentially participate in the
management of their disorder because the
tumor cell having defect in generating
energy from oxygen uh falls back on
Ancient fermentation Pathways was energy
without oxygen like all cells on the the
planet used energy without oxygen before
oxygen came into the atmosphere in the
early uh development of life on Earth so
these cancer cells are falling
essentially falling back on Ancient
Pathways of fermentation and then you
say well what does that mean well what
do they use to get energy and energy is
everything listen without energy right
we die quick and you want to know how
fast that is people who drink coola uh
with LA laced with cyanide uh drinking
the Kool-Aid laced with cyanide Jones
Jonestown everybody was dead instantly
very quickly okay that's what me that's
what happens when you have no energy
cancer cells can live in hypoxia they
can live in cyanide they don't need that
form of energy they they ferment they
use Ancient Pathways of energy and those
driven by the sugar glucose and the
amino acid glutamine so uh the solution
or a strategy in effective I don't want
to say solution but it's certainly an
effective strategy for cancer management
uh involves trans positioning the whole
body over to a a respiratory fuel like
fatty acids or ketones and then
selectively targeting the glucose and
the glutamine thereby protecting the
normal cells while we starve and
marginalize the tumor cells and the body
will gradually eliminate them uh from
the body now now yeah sure you can use
radiation and chemo and all this other
stuff uh which will certainly kill
cancer cells as you're an example of
that a Survivor but you can also kill
them by taking away their fermentable
fuels and blood cancers are remarkably
dependent on glutamine so I and glucose
so all cancer we can't find any tumor
that can use oxygen for energy
sufficiently so they're all essentially
dependent on this fermentation
metabolism and the theory that's
describes that is called the
mitochondrial metabolic theory of cancer
as opposed to the somatic mutation
Theory these are two radically different
ways of looking at the same
problem okay so let's break down both
let's take their approach first you know
obviously there's been a lot of studies
so they they didn't just pull it out of
thin air no so just being Devil's
Advocate why do they believe or why do
they look at the studies they look at
and believe those studies because when
you look at cancers uh you find all of
these mutations in the DNA and uh a lot
of these mutations are um uh thought to
to be responsible for how cells grow and
uh but the interesting thing is every
cell in a tumor has a whole different
constellation of mutations uh no two
cells in a tumor with tens of millions
of cells in this tumor no two cells in
that tumor have the identical genetic
problems they all have different kinds
of mutations but every cell in that
tumor is dependent on a fermentation
metabolism regardless of what the G the
genes say also you can test the
hypothesis very very uh convincingly
which has been done by a number of
investigators in the field where they
take the nucleus out of the tumor cell
with all of the mutations in that
nucleus the driver mutations and all the
different genetic defects that are
supposed to be responsible for
disregulated cell growth and then you
take that nucleus and then put it into a
new
cytoplasm uh with normal mitochondrial
uh function and the cell returns to a
growth regulated State it's not
disregulated any okay and then the
opposite experiments were done where you
take the the nucleus of a a normal cell
and you put it into the cytoplasm of a
tumor cell and what what was found is
you get a high incidence of now cells
that have disregulated growth uh despite
starting their uh Journey with a normal
nucleus so uh clearly uh and this was
done both both in in the in the culture
Dish as well as in invivo animals and by
by some of the devest best developmental
uh biologists known in our in our
scientific field leaders in the field of
biology were showing these same results
um we also Now find these uh those who
think cancer is a genetic disease have
two kinds of mutations the passenger
that doesn't seem to do much and the
so-called driver driver mutation which
which seems to be driving the
disregulated growth so uh what we're
finding now is that some cancer cells
under deep investigation have no
mutations at all and now we're beginning
to see all of these so-called driver
mutations in normal cells and tissues
that never become uh cancer so when you
put all these facts together um it
becomes hard to even if you have a
rational thinking mind it becomes
extremely difficult to explain these
phenomena based on the on a somatic
mutation Theory it just the the science
just doesn't hold up supporting that
where where we clearly show that all
cancer cells are fermentors we haven't
yet to find any tumor cell that can grow
without glucose and glutamine so the
question then becomes do you want to
spend hundreds of millions and billions
of dollars trying to Target various
mutations in people's tumors with the
hope that you might hit the jackpot and
kill all the tumor cells or would you
just like to pull the plug on their two
fermentable fuels and kill all of them
all uh uh gradually at the same over
time and I I think that and that's the
difference between how you view the
disease based on the two different
theories and once the field comes to
understand that cancer is a
mitochondrial metabolic disorder the the
approaches for cancer management will be
far less toxic uh much more coste
effective and uh much more
therapeutically beneficial um and um uh
I think this will be the eventual way
we'll manage cancer it's a mitochondrial
metabolic disease and if we selectively
Target the two fuels while transitioning
the body over to non-fermentable Fuels
like fatty acids and ketones I think
we're going to see a
gradual removal of tumors will it cure
cancer I have no clue will it keep
people alive longer with a higher
quality of life yes this is what we're
seeing in many when we could get those
folks to do the right we're seeing trem
tremendous uh much longer term survival
with a much higher quality of life no
hair loss no bleeding gums no nausea
vomiting diarrhea all this kind of stuff
so your body is we're using the body as
a natural mechanism a machine to fet out
and remove the tumor cells through a
natural healing process given the
opportunity you have to give the body
the opportunity to do this by using diet
and drugs that will Target the
fermentation metabolism and then you
begin to see gradual disappearance of
the tumor um does it go away completely
no for some folks it just grows real
slow and then periodically they have a
surgical procedure and remove some of it
another several years go by they'll go
through it again uh but the P these
people are alive with what we call
terminal cancers they should have been
dead years ago and they're still alive
so I look at that as success I don't say
it's a cure but I certainly say it's an
effective management and then there are
some people were like yourself where it
goes away completely and they're
wondering at what time will it come back
and the answer is we don't know
yeah you know look I'm I'm not rushing
for it to come back uh like I said I
just went for my yearly blood test and I
see my doctor this week yeah so this is
a timely conversation and you know
they'll let me know when it's time to go
in for another bone marob biopsy because
they can look at different markers in
the blood and every year I kind of walk
in and I'm squinting and going are they
gon oh yeah and you know especially on
year five and year six and year I'm like
tell me this you know it's always
something like looking over your
shoulder it's like um it's kind of a
threat to your to yourself your fear
like no one wants to go to the doctor
you're feeling good you look great and
you go there and have this guy tell you
oh we see the cancer coming back again
oh you know then it makes your whole not
a good day um but then you leave and the
guy say no I don't see anything and then
you get really happy and excited and you
feel good for another another several
years you get to you keep going through
this whole cycle over and over again and
uh that's what I said so but that but
the idea about metabolic therapy is that
even if you were to have a recurrence uh
it still does not uh prevent you from
from tackling the problem using
metabolic therapy or some combination of
drug with with metabolic therapy we
don't we don't uh we have seen some
successes with very lowd dose chemo and
under metabolic uh uh metabolic stress
of the body kills the tumor cell so the
drugs work better at a lower dose more
effectively and you don't have to suffer
the collateral damage that a lot of
other folks have to do well that's what
I'm really hoping that that that's my
dream um they told me I had so much
leukemia running through my bone marrow
that you know I I was I had to take all
kinds of other drugs to stay alive while
they were trying to kill the cancer
which some of those drugs had more side
effects than even the chemo and right my
feeling is well next time maybe they can
just give me a touch of the chemo
because I'm keep eating you know a very
low carb ketogenic diet and um well I
puts a lot of it's hard to grow cancer
when the when the fuel for it to grow is
is limited yeah you know it's just that
simple um but the thing that we found uh
which OT warberg did not know about uh
was that there was a second fermentable
fuel which is the amino acid glutamine
and um that you know most people thought
was a respiratory fuel uh and normal
cells it can be a respiratory cell fuel
but in the cancer cell it's a
fermentable fuel so you can you can
Target the glutamine you need drugs for
that but uh exercise can bring it down
to some extent but the better act the
better option is to use certain low dose
drugs that will specifically Target the
glutamine glutaminolysis pathway let's
talk about glutamine for just a second I
don't want to get too far in the weeds
because I want I like keeping it on a
level where anyone can understand this
uh El glutamine is a breakdown of an
amino acid it's a part of an amino it it
it is the amino acid right it's a
breakdown of a protein but it glutamine
is an amino acid so you have an amino
acid that is found in in animal products
I mean every you know and eggs and
whatever how do we keep glutamine at a
low level if we have to eat protein
every day well it's non-essential amino
acid and uh but it's essential for
cancer so um uh some cancers respond
more they're more dependent on glutamine
than other cancers so you have to you
have to you have to recognize that uh
we're doing those tests uh right now
don't forget you also have to realize
that glutamine is the singular most
abundant amino acid circulating in our
bloodstream much higher concentration
than any other amino acid and that's
because our immune cells use glutamine
to kill microbes that enter our body
also our gut uh cells and health of our
microbiome and gut is heavily dependent
on glutamine the Ura cycle glutamine
plays a tremendous role in the Ura cycle
so this is an an essential amino acid
for a lot of things they call it
non-essential because we could actually
synthesize it from glucose so it's not
like you have to have it uh it can be
produced with internally from from other
other uh metabolites but but for cancer
yeah it's a double-edged sword uh but
that's why we developed the Press pulse
therapeutic strategy we can press down
glucose really well as long as we can
Elevate Ketone bodies and fatty acids uh
but then we have to strategically pulse
and Target glutamine uh because if we're
too aggressive with targeting glutamine
we could harm the gut or we could harm
the immune system or something like this
so again it's you have a great tool but
you got to know how to use it in the
right context uh to maximize its
therapeutic efficacy and if you don't
know that then you could potentially do
harm and reduce the opportunity to do a
lot better with these therapies so again
you have to have some knowledge base and
we've published these papers to give uh
Physicians an opportunity to you know uh
work out some of the ideas they might
have and exercise will lower glutamine
as well but it won't go down low enough
to really start killing tumor cells
that's why sprinkle a little bit 6 oxy
norleucine a little endol and some of
these other drugs that we're now
beginning to realize they pushers on the
glutamine thing but the you got to do it
in a way you don't want to harm your
immune system or your gut so again it's
like it's like anything you really need
need to know the concepts and and how to
use the tools that you
have with that in mind uh we're going to
take a quick break here but when I come
back I want to get into what a diet and
the supplement program might look like
to keep cancer at Bay before we do that
folks um olive oil olive oil listen
we're talking about eating
healthy a lot of the olive oil in this
country at least the big The Big Box you
know the berol and some of these olive
oils they're cut up to 40% with seed
oils and they can legal our FDA allows
them to legally do that and then once
you cut olive oil that much it doesn't
look much like olive oil so they have to
add a coloring back in and it doesn't
smell much like olive oil so they have
to put this odor back a perfume into it
to make it look and smell like olive oil
meanwhile you have a big
gut full of seed oil well you don't want
that to happen there's a lot of good
brands out there but the one I like to
recommend because I don't know they
write me a check every month is Villa
Capelli they've been a sponsor of this
podcast for well over 11 years Villa
Capelli we found this company I love
their product and it's not just about
being a healthy olive oil it almost
tastes like a salad dressing all on its
own it's it's amazing how good this oil
is you guys have seen me right here on
the show you know I'll chug an ounce of
it at a time I'm a big olive oil fan I
hope that Dr safre doesn't come back and
tell us that olive oil is no for us in
some way shape or form but uh big fan
here been using uh Villa Capelli for 11
years now go give it a shot literally uh
put in promo code Vinnie v n ni IE now
listen they may be out of the 3 l 10
right now but put your name in and when
that olive oil look they're not going to
just sell any kind of crappy oil they're
not going to buy it out of Spain or
anywhere else you got to wait for them
to Crist the you know the trees have to
bear the fruit and then they have to
crush the the fruit and then they have
to get the oil and that takes a bit of
time so if they don't have what you want
in stock put your name in but whenever
you get your oil put in promo code
Vinnie v i n n i e and you'll get 10%
off if you spend more than $125 you'll
also get free shipping uh so go check
that out we're talking to Dr Thomas Saed
um
Thomas people are sitting there going
okay I have a touch of cancer I have
this problem I have that problem what
does the diet look like and are there
any supplements we should be looking
into in order to keep cancer at Bay well
this is a good point Vinnie I tell you
um because there's so much confusion
about diets and and and this is one of
the reasons why the medical
establishment has always steered clear
uh from diets they're they're they're
not formulated in a way that can be um
generally used for most people it's
always ambiguous what's in a diet what
are you eating how much you're eating
this and that that's why we developed
the glucose Ketone index
calculator uh which measures the ratio
in millimolar in the blood uh for the
sugar glucose and the um um Ketone body
so um so as you stop eating or or do
keto or water only fasting or these
kinds of things your blood sugar
naturally will go down because you're
not eating anything insulin levels go
down because you they don't see glucose
in your bloodstream so blood sugar Goes
Down And if you wait if you continue to
do this uh ketones uh go up and where
they come from they your fat cells start
to release fatty acids into the
bloodstream and those fatty acids from
your adapost tissue uh go to the liver
and the liver chops them up so the fatty
acids a long carbon hydrogen molecule
and it chops them up like putting
branches into a wood Chopper and they
make water soluble Ketone bodies which
can replace now glucose for the brain
and other organism other organs uh
muscle and heart and things like this so
as you um slowly lower your blood sugar
through Diet Water only fasting or
something like this your Ketone slowly
come up and you get this ratio of blood
glucose to blood ketones in a in a
Millar ratio and we have published that
if you can get your if you have cancer
and you can get your gki glucose Ketone
index to about 2.0 or below now you're
putting tremendous pressure on uh tumor
cells now you can achieve that by by
that L if somebody were a pescatarian or
a vegan or a carnivore or a
Mediterranean guy whatever you want to
you would you would continue to eat what
you thought was a good diet and the
blood work will tell you whether or not
it is so people always ask me can I eat
that what he never said what you should
eat or not just get your gki 2. Zer and
below and you'll know what you can or
cannot eat and this depends this is very
different from one person to the next so
it's hard if a guy's a vegan he needs to
you know eat the vegetables that are
going to bring it the lowest glucose um
and uh let the ketones rise and so it
varies from one person to the next
everybody does their normal diet and
then the the meter the glucose Ketone
index meter the keto Mojo or whatever
you're using to measure this uh will
tell you whether or not you can eat
whatever so I don't want to make it a
diet specific uh obviously you low
carbohydrate things uh would obviously
be important you're not going to get a
low gki pounding jelly donuts Pizza Pie
and this kind ofu
but but you certainly can get it on uh
vegetables that have low glycemic
vegetables or meat or a variety of these
kinds of things and you pe each person
will know what they can and cannot eat
that I told you the ratio it's 2.0 below
and if you have a cancer in your body
it's going to start to suffer and up and
die when you get into those ratios then
you sprinkle in a little bit of uh
Target a little bit of glutamine with a
drug like endol or Dawn and uh you start
to uh do this now supplement
any supplement that will not raise
glucose or Ketone or or reduce ketones
can be okay people use these things I
say well I'm taking this supplement what
does it do to your gki well I never
tested it test it and see what it does
to your gki if it doesn't raise your
gkii then you should be able to take it
so if it doesn't have any toxicity
associated with it so there's a number
of supplements out there that people
take and they can recommend them
berberine and things like this um uh try
it I mean that's what I would say we
always bring everybody down to the
ground zero and then add back things and
see what what they can can or cannot
like you're your own experiment that you
each person is their own experiment they
have to test their own body to determine
what they cannot can or cannot eat or
what supplement might be beneficial to
them explain to me just a little more
about gki now I I I test my blood all
the time and my molers or anywhere
between you know 7 in the morning when I
wake up and usually they run between 1.2
and 1.5 during a day if I do a hard
effort for several hours in a kayak or
hiking or robot well wait wait wait wait
we we're not going to get blood sugar at
0 7 Millar uh that's that's the lowest
I've ever seen by any human was point no
no but that's what I'm asking about the
gki I'm talking about um the ketones in
the blood oh you're talking about the
ratio you have to get the ratio from the
keto Mojo or Precision extra one of
these so I have a Precision extra tell
me what do to figure it out okay so keto
Mojo uh we published the the that you
got to convert because the glucose is
given in in in milligrams per per
decaliter
deciliter and you have to convert that
to millimolar by dividing that number by
18 and for a lot of folks that's like oh
my God I gotta learn math to do other
stuff it's like give me a break but the
keto Mojo already has the uh the you
push the button and it instantly gives
you the ratio so uh that meter might be
more user friendly than having to sit
with a pencil and Pen uh pencil and
paper to divide Your desal Leader by by
by um molar so so by 18 I should say and
and and uh to get your glucose molar
value so so um keto Mojo will do it all
for you and um and you know you buy it
on Amazon you got the consumables the
strips uh I understand like they have
the free Libra now that's an interesting
device that's um uh and they're going to
start selling that over the counter uh
where you can measure your blood sugar
in real time and you can the problem is
there's no free Libra for Ketone yet um
but people are telling me there some of
these new technologies will be coming in
the future so once you would have that
but right now the Mojo meter is probably
the best bet it it calculates it all for
you you buy it on Amazon it's not that
expensive uh where you get always the
expenses are in the consumables the the
glucose ketone strips but you know urine
we do urine urine strips can measure
ketones as well um and you can use those
in intermediate base because the ketone
strips are a little bit more expensive
than glucose strips so so um the issue
here of course is is that um people can
and they can record the log uh they can
log it into their daily routine what
part time of the day they have the
lowest uh gki so they and it varies
during the course of a day so people get
to know how their body responds over a
course of a day from the foods they ate
the activity they have and then they get
to know uh what What's the best time now
once you're in the low gki that's when
we use the D glutamine targeting uh and
other supplements and drugs like this uh
low doses of course always and make sure
it never raises the the gki so again um
now what I'm what I'm telling you is not
known for by the majority of oncologists
or even Physicians right not understood
uh when you think cancer is a genetic
disease you don't think about any of
this stuff that I just told you you're
you're you're using targeted therapies
immunotherapies and these kinds of
things um that uh you know it's very
interesting I find it when people say oh
you know my immunotherapy I spent all
this money and they said it's not
working because my tumor my tumor is so
acidic that the immunotherapy or the
chemotherapy or the radiation therapy is
not working and the the answer is is
because the acidity is coming from the
metabolism of the glucose and glutamine
so if I get rid of the glucose and the
glutamine you get rid of the acidity and
now all these other things start working
a little bit better if people really
understood the biology of the of the
disorder they wouldn't think it is as
complicated and mysterious as it
actually is it's not that you just need
to know what they think is so
complicated and so difficult is not that
complicated and it can be managed
effectively when you know how to do the
things that I've just mentioned yeah you
know it is it you know when you listen
to what they have to say um it's very
interesting I had a friend whose sister
uh got breast cancer and she she has the
the braa gene right so oh you got to get
your your other two sisters in here and
they were scaring these women into oh
you should have your uterus removed and
you know chop your breast off and do all
this other stuff and my friend came to
me and says what do you think I like
well are you healthy are are you healthy
right now yeah do you have any of the
symptoms of no it's like and you're
going to go rip your uterus out and go
go have your breast removed I I would
tell you if your sister has the braco
Gene maybe you should go in for a test
every so often but I don't think you
have to go under the knife because your
sister's sick yeah but that's what
medicine is yeah no it's a fear it's the
fear and I I know the famous Angelina
Jolie the actress um she made that kind
of like a strategy getting your breast
removed prophylactically so you don't so
even if you have this you have this
Brack a gene and you eliminate the the
tissue that where where the gene is
expressed you have to realize um we did
a a real thorough investigation of all
these so-called um these are germline
risk factors they're they're not somatic
mutations they're germline mutations
braco one leaf R many p53 there's a
there's a variety of other of these kind
of of we call them inherited risk
factors but there none of them are
primary they're all secondary you see to
have a primary risk factor for getting a
disease every person with that disease
has to have that linkage it's the cause
like for example hunting tin's disease
right anyone that inherits the gene the
mutation in the protein hunting tin will
bar always have at some point in their
life they will get Huntington's disease
the primary cause of Huntington's
disease is a mutation in the protein
called hunting tin in cancer a braa one
has a pen so in other words the hunting
thin disease is 100% penetrant therefore
it's the primary cause braa one is about
55% penetrant that means about 45% of
women that have this Gene will never
experience a cancer as the result of
this it's not 100% penetrant and that we
don't really know
why some women have the mutation and
never develop a cancer because there's
something that's blocking this this Gene
from initiating cancer and what we found
in every woman that has the braa one
that does get cancer the mitochondria
abnormal producing a fermentation
metabolism so uh why why the braa one
would disrupt mitochondria in one woman
making a risk for cancer and another
woman have the same mutation and doesn't
doesn't so that means braa one can be
modified it can be modified in its uh
level of expressivity so again I think
what you said is absolutely correct I
think if you are diagnosed with the braa
one yes you can have your breasts and
ovaries and these kinds of things
removed or you might want to consider uh
going into a Paleolithic kind of diet
and lifestyle where you're you're not
going to be able to get cancer if the
damn sugar driving the disregulated
growth is not there in any great great
amount and if there was a tumor that
would arise it under these uh uh
environmental conditions then you can
probably have it uh debulked with a
lumpectomy or something small you won't
you won't have to have uh what we call
surgical mutilation of your body uh
trying to uh upfront whether you're
going to have this or not I think I
think there are options once you realize
that cancer is a metabolic disease then
you have different options to deal with
the problem you you should at least be
aware of these other options rather than
just you know going out and just as you
said have being surgically m mutilated
uh if the if the patients knew there
were there was another option based on
the biology of the disorder I think a
lot of people might say I I might take
the risk and if it comes I I know what
to do and and if I then if I have it and
I have to have my and there's another
thing that's really weird um of all the
studies that have been done uh with
radical mastectomy versus lumpectomy
there's no statistical significance in
in long-term overall survival whether
you have a lumpectomy or a radical
mastectomy this been over and over and
over dozens of experiments have shown
this and yet so many women are
surgically mutilated uh having their
breasts one or two breasts removed uh
when there's no evidence to say that's
that's going to give you any longer
survival than a lumpectomy it's
unbelievable yeah and you know I hear
this all the time not just with cancer
but um with type 1 diabetics and
everything else you know they'll tell
the parent well let your kid eat
whatever they want because they could
just take this fast acting insulin and
you know take care of the sugar and if
the person says to the doctor but what
if my kid just ate less sugar the doctor
will actually tell them why put your kid
through that let them live a normal
kid's lifestyle and I'm sitting there
going normal lifestyle just left the
room when you found out you had juvenile
diabetes right yeah the doctor's going
all sugar and cake and Coke just let
them have it you could just hit them
with this fast insulin it's the same
thing with you know I I would say the
same thing probably happens with you
know the total masectomy and and pulling
out the the the plumbing and the whole
thing where these these doctors are
going why change your lifestyle we can
just mutilate you and then you can go
have chocolate cake next week and you'll
be fine it makes absolutely no sense to
me that makes no sense to me either um
and I think you're mostly talking about
type two
diabetes uh which is a diet lifestyle
issue well no no no let me be very clear
on that doctor um with type two yes we
we cause type two because of diet and
lifestyle but um there's a movie out
there and my friend did the movie
um she has a type one kid and what they
found out was with type one kids of
course you're not going to get rid of it
with diet and lifestyle you can't get
rid of it but what they found out is
instead of putting them on this high
priced fast acting insulin if you just
keep them off of sugar you can use the
old style which almost costs nothing per
month uh per you know it's just a very
very inexpensive drug it's the the old
timey slow acting insulin that can just
keep them even killed all the time if
you just keep their sugar low I didn't
mean to misspeak about the difference
between type no that well that makes
perfect sense because that's certainly a
strategy that seems to work for a lot of
folks yeah but you're right I mean type
one diabetics really are dependent on on
insulin because they they can't make in
insulin whereas the type two diabetic
can make insulin but they become
insensitive to it um because of their
diet and lifestyle and and child that
would be overweight I every time you see
a child that is obese uh that poor uh
soul is unlikely to live as long on the
planet as some other even the and and
people don't realize smoke uh di
diabetes type two has replaced smoking
as the number one risk factor for cancer
yeah so so it's unbelievable and and I
don't think people know that I I don't
know uh how people don't recognize that
being obese is a massive risk factor for
your health and you don't live you don't
live people say I geez if I make it to
50 or 60 I'm doing really really good
yeah but you're linking your dementia
cancer uh all kinds of other chronic
diseases are linked to that and your
quality of life oh yeah if you're 10 or
14 and 15 into the 20s because your body
is so young and so resilient but you
keep that up and all of a sudden man you
are one hurting Buckaroo and you ain't
you're not going to live on this planet
as long as it's already known that I
mean we we've seen that reduces lifespan
so and you get C you get cancer and D
Man and dementia that's another people
don't understand these diet Lifestyles
put them at risk for dementia as well so
so but you know I I look at it and
because we have an obesity epidemic
that's worse around the world apparently
people leave that don't know well they
don't care so what are you gonna do I
mean they should know I mean I can't go
around say you know putting up a flag I
I I know this stuff and people should
know if they have some level of
scientific literacy they should know
this is not healthy you know they should
know that a little kid that is morbidly
obese he's at risk for all kinds of
health issues that other kids uh that
are fit and not obese uh are less likely
to
have yeah you know Friends of the show
Gary TS who was on just a couple of
weeks ago again and Nina Taos who have
spent time here at my house we talk
about this type of thing and you know
when we we feel like when we start
making ground on the subject of hey
you'll be better off eating real food
eating real wholesome food eating animal
protein and you start winning that
argument because you start seeing people
lose weight reverse their type 2
diabetes get rid of a lot of metabolic
syndrome or
syndromes um then the next thing they do
is they go well okay but it's bad for
the environment it's like okay well now
you're moving to gopost you were telling
us that this will not help a person
we're showing that it will help someone
get healthier so you move the gopost and
go well a cow just farted and I think
the ozone layer is going to crash so you
can't win that's not that's that's kind
of irrelevant yeah um you know you're
talking about but I but on the otherand
you have to realize that eating healthy
foods um is is sometimes harder to get
uh than cheap highly processed
carbohydrates yeah um you know and it's
also an economic issue uh some of these
you know organic foods are are more
costly uh they don't have a shelf life
for sure and a lot of folks live in
paycheck to paycheck sometimes don't
don't have that and you know you're
working all day long um you you're
sitting in traffic you're all stressed
out you come home and what and you throw
something into the microwave or
something quick so just so you can relax
on the chair and watch some programming
you're just like so you got stress so
all of these things are what we call
diet and lifestyle lack of exercise
convenience poorly nutritious foods and
you put all that together and that's the
result of our highly efficient
technology that we have developed over
the last hundred years so all of these
things come come into action it's a diet
lifestyle issue it's not only putting us
at risk for cancer but uh all the other
things that we've just spoken about you
know type two diabetes macular
degeneration dementia uh all of these
things making your life less uh um
robust and uh but the convenience factor
I'll tell you it's just so powerful um
you know cost financial and convenience
uh low cost and convenience seem to
Trump uh or over overshadow uh Health U
and these kinds of things so you know I
don't know what to say I'm not here to
talk about that I you know people can
speculate and do all this stuff you know
I I work to to try to manage cancer uh
through through strategies that I
understand the biology of the disorder
and therefore think we can make huge
progress in dropping the death rate by
by as much as 50% in 10 years by knowing
the biology of the disorder and and by
the way uh the people that do this also
get very very healthy in other ways
sometimes the diabetes the hypertension
the high blood pressure all of these
other things seem to go away along with
the cancer so um and we're seeing this
over and over again for some of these
folks that like G tanom he's on the web
telling everybody how he got rid of
every almost everything besides his
terminal prostate cancer yeah um so so
um you know this is the strategy people
can do what they want to do I my my view
is that they should at least have a
choice or at least should be told about
some of this rather than not being told
or saying oh there's no evidence to
support anything we're saying there's
massive evidence just the problem is
people don't read the literature and
understand either they don't read it or
they don't understand it I I you know
what can I what could anybody do about
that you can't do anything about it you
know I've been talking to them blew in
the face for you know we've done 2500
podcasts here over the past 12 years and
um you know you can only you can't make
people do anything you know and you know
whenever people write to me and say hey
you've saved my life you know because I
get guys like you on they think I'm
saving it's like no no I didn't do
anything and the doctor I had on he
didn't do anything you took a suggestion
and you did the hard work right and to
answer what you were saying about you
know food costing too much might be true
but look you know we we've done all
these things to make our lives easier so
you can certainly come home and at least
cook hamburger meat and anyone can
afford eggs I get it eggs have doubled
in price but they're still cheap and the
bottom line is is that we can't afford
not to eat correctly we can't afford to
to to mess around and eat junk food from
a microwave and everything else you know
it's and by way if the government want
to get serious about it they're sitting
there subsidizing sugar and they're
subsidizing wheat and Grains and
everything else subsidized meat but
that's not what they're doing they're
going after meat uh you go to New York
they're doing meatless mundies and you
know California no meat Friday and vegan
Wednesday and everything
else is going in the wrong direction
we're still going in the wrong direction
that that pendulum is not swung back
into the positive yet it's the way I
feel at least no that's true I think you
have a lot lot to be said I I think but
I think a knowledge um distrib
distribution of knowledge uh give people
the opportunity to make choices um and
the Physicians many of them need to be
re-educated uh the folks the the people
need to be educated to know enough and I
think a lot of them do you I think a lot
of them know they're eating bad stuff
but they it's so tasty and so convenient
and so cheap let's just keep with it and
and it's like smoking cigarettes in the
past yeah you met you know how many
people everybody was smoking not
everybody but so many people in the
popul with and they're rolling the dice
I'm not going to be the one getting the
cancer I'm not going to be the one
getting the heart disease and yet they
would have a heart attack yeah um they
were addicted and don't forget that the
highly processed carbohydrate foods are
addicting uh just like nicotine and
caffeine and all these other things
glucose addiction is an extremely
powerful force on the brain anybody who
doesn't believe me try stop eating for
three or four days just drink water see
what happens you're going to be really
in a in a you're going to have
withdrawal symptoms and uh so that just
goes to show you the power of glucose on
the brain and it's an addicting it's an
addicting substance uh but once you can
break that addiction to glucose uh um
you know uh you can it's even myself I I
mean I
enjoy sugar every now and then I I try
to avoid it but if I had cancer man I
tell you I would avoid it like the
plague there's no question I look at
Sugar as if it's a rattlesnake and I'm a
sugarholic it was tough for me and I've
actually spoken to uh ex junkies people
that were on heroin cocaine problems the
whole thing and they'll tell you oh
sugar was as tough if not tougher than
and I'll say how can that possibly be
heroin is such a strong drug and they'll
say because you can get sugar everywhere
every day it's all around you you you
could just reach for it it's it's right
there for me to get heroin I would have
to go down the street corner somewhere
and meet my guy right get stuff and you
know so they're right you know or as I
told Dr Drew once he was telling me that
well sugar is not really as bad as
cocaine and I said yeah but we're not
giving cocaine to children at birthday
parties that that's the big difference
well as I said if you don't think it's
so bad try going without it for three or
four days you'll come to know yeah yeah
it's a real thing um I don't want to
keep you ever Thomas you're you're so
kind to come back on and to do this
because uh like I said people write to
me and I talk to them every week and
it's the cancer thing over and over
again where could those people go to
find you and to get help if they have
cancer or they want to learn more about
what you're doing well you know right
now we're I send out a kit of
information to the people that contact
me um and you know it's it's it's mostly
for educational purposes I am not a
physician I'm a Prof Professor so I
cannot treat uh PA patients I cannot
tell anybody what to do or what not to
do I can only give them educational
material they make decisions as to what
they want to do or what not to do we
have submitted a very comprehensive
treatment protocol with my MD colleagues
uh to publication it's a how-to manual
on using metabolic therapy for managing
brain cancer but the issue of course is
it would be effective in managing almost
any cancer because they're all very much
the same they can't live without glucose
and glutamine that's what commonality of
all cancers people always say cancer is
a hundred different diseases no it's not
it's a singular disease of energy
metabolism and I have yet to be shown
any cancer cell in any kind of an organ
that can survive without glucose and
glutamine so we really know what their
Achilles weakness is they can't survive
without fermentable fuels period and
that's becomes a very solvable problem
now so uh but a lot of people don't know
that and nor does the uh or if they do
know it they don't like to talk about it
right so so uh but I can give
information like that and when the
protocol if it gets published and I'm
hoping it does then you can give that to
patients and they can take it to their
Physicians any any person licensed to
practice medicine whether you're an
oncologist or not can help uh cancer
patients weit through uh what they need
to do on how to implement this and of
course if oncologists would like to get
on board
they certainly can do this because
that's what they are supposedly trained
to do um but the the it's coming
metabolic therapy is on its way okay
people can either uh get on the wagon uh
and start recognizing this or they can
get out of the way because people want
to live and they don't want to be
poisoned and radiated to make themselves
healthy so metabolic therapy offers an
alternative uh a biologically sound
based alternative
to the uh toxic mutilating poisoning
strategies that we currently call the
standard of care so it's coming I I mean
it's I can sit here and talk oh you know
but it it's coming people want it it
works and and it's G to it's going to be
the new standard of care I just don't
know how long it's going to take for the
system to make the necessary adaptations
to recognize this well listen I I can
tell you this uh just to do a little
call back from earlier in the show uh
Jonestown Guyana I drank the Kool-Aid on
this a long time ago by the way folks
don't drink Kool-Aid is full of sugar
but yeah I I I'm a Kool-Aid Drinker when
it comes to it and here I am 17 plus
years down the road cancer free in one
experiment but I'll let you guys know I
I've always said whenever my cancer
comes back I'll be I'll be on this
podcast saying it's back and here's what
I'm doing to push it back into remission
again uh Dr safre stay on the line
because we have to let this upload so
we'll we'll talk for a minute I want to
ask you a couple of things anyway folks
uh if you like what's going on here uh
before you go to Amazon go to vines.com
click through the banner it puts a
little coal on the Fire gets our trained
down the track it helps other people
find this show also rate and review then
cost you a thing to do either one of
those two things right in review also go
check out everything Dr Thomas safre was
talking about during this podcast um as
I said I'm a Kool-Aid Drinker on it and
you will be too so on behalf of Dr
Thomas AED my name is Vinnie toich put
life into living and do it with
[Music]
enthusiasm